>> David Khourshid: One big thing that
comes up with state management in React
is when do I actually use a third
party state management library?
And the short answer is that you should
use it when the built in patterns
that React has doesn't really scale.
And remember I talked about in the very
beginning, that scale isn't just about
the number of lines of code or the number
of features you have, but it is about how
maintainable and sustainable is this
code base when the application grows.
And so when things get hairy and
all spaghetti y then you have to question
like is what I'm doing with React enough,
because when you look at other
frameworks and libraries such as Svelte or
Solid, they have different
state management approaches which
avoid a lot of the complexity,
the accidental complexity that
React introduces just because with
state management React is a lot
more limited, believe it or not.
Like this might be controversial,
but you can't rely just on React's
built in hooks all the time for
all use cases of state.
Which is why libraries like
Redux became so popular.
And now there's other libraries
like Zustan and Jotai and
Xstate and things like that which
people have had to use to sort
of smooth over React's
incomplete handling of states.
And so places that we see this are like
when you're over relying on context.
So if you have multiple providers or
if you have just providers everywhere and
it could really be condensed like we heard
about earlier, the prop drilling we saw
earlier and also of course scattered state
logic where there is no central place for
specific domains in your app where you
could see here's the state, here's how it
updates and here's the different actions
or events that can change that state.
So that's why third party state
management libraries exist and
that's why you should consider using
them when it's rights to I'm not saying
that you should replace all of your
state management with these libraries,
but it is very useful to understand
when to use them and how to use them.
So in here I outlined just a few
ways where it gets really messy.
With React states of course
we saw prop drilling.
There's also state synchronization issues,
especially when
you have multiple components
needing to read the same state and
you realize that and you're like
well I could either prop drill or
move it up to the parents and then do some
more prop drilling or use context and
suffer the re rendering issue which leads
to the context performance problems.
Because with context,
context was meant for
states that wasn't like,
that isn't going to frequently change.
And so that's why the typical example
of context is themes, like a theme or
just a user preference or something
very simple like that that needs to
propagate down to all the components,
but is not going to change that often.
So that leaves us in an odd spot where
we have state that might change a lot,
but context is going to just
cause a lot of re renders.
And of course, like I talked about,
state logic is scattered everywhere,
especially when you're using hooks,
even even when you're using context,
unless you're using usereducer, which it
has its own problems with boilerplate.
It gets really messy.
And so that's why there's two types of
third party state management libraries.
There's the store based approach and
the atomic or the signal based approach.
And both of these are actually useful.
It doesn't need to be an either or.
So a store based solution
uses a centralized approach.
You could think of a store as
basically a reducer container.
So you have some states and
then you have actions or events,
depending on what they call them,
that can operate on the state and
cause that state to
transition to a new state.
I really like using a store based
solution because this is what I call
indirect state management.
And what that means is you are not
directly mutating or updating the state,
even if it is immutable.
You're not just saying I'm going to
change the state whenever I want,
however I want,
because that's very problematic.
And you might have some centralized
app logic where the state needs to
be in a consistent way.
You don't want impossible states,
you want to manage things like, for
example, a number must have a max value.
Or when I'm in the state of results,
I need to show the results and
I need to be sure that they exist,
et cetera.
And then there's atomic solutions.
So in atom, it's not really well
defined atoms and signals, but
you could think of them as pieces of data
that can change from pretty much anywhere.
And so they don't have the restrictions
of store based solutions.
You can literally just update an atom and
just subscribe to its value,
so that's where there's
libraries like Jotai, Recoil and
xdatestore, which I'm going to talk about
soon, that do make use of these atoms.
And the other cool thing about
atoms is that they're reactive.
So you could combine two different
atoms and when one of them updates,
it's going to combine the value
of those atoms and update them.
So it handles automatic subscriptions and
things like that.
Again, there's pretty much
two different approaches.
You should have stores when you
have complex logic requirements.
When you don't want a piece of state or
a piece of data to just change
from anywhere, then use a store,
because it's going to give you a much more
controlled way of managing that state.
And you can choose atoms if you want.
If you have just state where it's like,
I know this can change from anywhere,
I really don't care.
It's just somewhere where it
might change externally, or
it's something that we don't necessarily
need to have strict control over,
and we also want it to be reactive so
that we could subscribe to it, et cetera.
And again,
you could use both of them hand in hand.